you switch on the light as soon as you
enter a room you
never even stop to think about counting
how long it takes for the bulb to light
up
you couldn't it's as if it's instant
well
technically you could if you were fast
enough good luck clicking that stopwatch
in time when you're measuring over 670
million miles per hour
that's 180 000 miles per second almost
the distance from the earth to the moon
in the snap of a finger oops
wrong sound effect can you give me a
finger snap yeah that's it
in the snap of a finger and the moon's
further away than you probably think
if all the planets in the entire solar
system were lined up in one epic conga
line
they'd fit between the earth and its
satellite and that's including poor
outcasted pluto ok light is fast
moving on it's a beautiful sunny day
perfect for a job
and like any other day you go for a run
you stop and think
hey i wonder what the speed of sound is
don't you
well definitely not nearly as fast as
light
need proof check for yourself next time
it storms in your area
you'll see lightning flash before
hearing the crack of thunder
the light from that bolt rushed to you
zoomed in your eyeballs
and up into your brain for you to
understand oh
lightning all the while the sound wave
from the thunder is still on its merry
way to your ear
it'll get there just give it time by the
way
thunder isn't the sound of storm clouds
crashing together
it comes from that very same lightning
bolt it races
toward the ground and rips a path
through the air as it does
the air politely moves aside to make way
for the lightning
and in the instant the lightning is gone
boom
the air comes back together and makes
the sound we call
thunder oh and here's a fun fact sound
travels faster underwater
than in the air a little over four times
faster to be exact
so if you were to go for a swim with
your friend and shout something bizarre
underwater
they'd hear it a bit sooner than if you
did the same thing outside of the pool
uh oh
everybody else heard it too oops sound
also travels over longer distances
underwater
it's why humpback whale calls can be
heard for thousands and thousands of
miles
but in a controlled environment where
the air is dry and we have a constant
temperature of 68 degrees fahrenheit
the speed of sound is about 760 miles
per hour
now that's a more realistic number one
that people can even reach
the famous bell x1 aircraft was the
first to break the sound barrier on
october 14
1947 test pilot chuck yeager was in the
cockpit of the rocket plane
imagine hearing that sonic boom for the
first time ever in history
bravo captain humans can race with sound
but light is a whole different challenge
for one
measuring it in the first place is no
easy task
the official speed of light has changed
several times throughout history
even going back to the 1600s after
centuries of debate and experiments with
different results
the scientific community finally settled
the matter in 1983.
maybe to measure the speed of anything
you'll need to know two things
the distance between point a and b and
the time
it takes for an object to travel between
those points
with distance divided by time you'll
have yourself the speed of light
but with every experiment done to
measure light speed
there's always been an extra cog in the
wheel that everyone overlooked
or rather brushed aside when doing an
experiment using light beams and mirrors
we've always included the light beams
trip from a to b
and backed away with equal speed and
equal distance
we have ourselves a controlled
experiment and conclude an official
speed number for the books
case closed let's celebrate
not so fast a certain someone in 1905
had something to say about this
and that someone put a theory out there
that light can travel different speeds
going forward and back
still can't wrap your head around it
well let's take this example
you had a long day you pulled an
all-nighter at work and
can't wait to sink into your comfy warm
bed
you get on a bus and head home the
night's clear
and there's zero traffic on the road
before the wheels on the bus can even go
round and round you immediately conk out
in the back seat
but right before that you checked the
clock and saw it's exactly 10 pm
what after a big bump on the road jolts
you awake
you become aware of your surroundings
but you suddenly find yourself
in the exact same spot as the moment
before you fell asleep
that was a quick nap but then you look
at your watch
and it's now 11 pm you fell asleep
in the bus and missed your stop you'll
have to repeat the exact
same route all over again bummer
what can you determine from this since
the whole
ordeal took you an hour you can assume
it took exactly 30 minutes from the bus
stop to reach your house
and another half hour from your house
back to the bus stop
sounds logical right in our physical
bodies such a conclusion makes perfect
sense
but it was albert einstein who
challenged this idea
with his reasoning the trip could have
taken 59 minutes to get home instead of
and one minute back to the bus stop or
even vice versa
since you were fast asleep there's no
way you can know
and this idea is what's keeping
scientists and physicists
up all night throughout the decades when
you get into light speed in space
then the mind-blowing stuff starts
happening it takes approximately eight
minutes for light to reach earth from
the sun
so light is super slow in space and not
really
now we're talking unimaginable distances
it takes eight minutes for our sun's
light to travel over 90 million miles to
our planet
that's something to think about when
going to the beach the sunlight that
made your tan
lines traveled so far across our solar
system reach your skin
ah how thoughtful and you can get
sunburned even on a cloudy day
that's how powerful our star is now
imagine yourself living on pluto
i know i know it's planet membership got
revoked in 06
but hey call me old school our former
furthest planet from the sun is
so far away it takes five and a half
hours for sunlight to get there
no wonder it's always cold the first
planet in line is mercury
the sun's rays reach it in a mere three
minutes
hey that's probably enough time to
listen to your favorite song
by the time the song ends you are the
mercurian
version of you will be basking in the
sun's glory
it'll be impossible to listen to that
track in space since sound can't even
travel out there
you know no one can hear you scream oops
there she is again
music is just vibrating air and without
any air in space sound can't travel
that explains why it's so eerily quiet
out there
okay can somebody take the scream girl
down the hall
and while we're up in space let's pay
our neighbor a little friendly visit
alpha centauri is the closest star
system to our own
and what fun the trip is just four light
years away
uh that's 25 trillion miles and 137 000
years on the road
and don't forget to pack a big lunch to
put
all that in perspective it would take
around 5 000
generations in a super shuttle traveling
through empty vast space to complete the
journey and we won't be able to come
close to the star
oh and that's just one way okay i think
i'd rather come back to earth now
that's better now the longing question
how can we measure the speed of light
without that little dilemma about the
return trip
oh i got it why don't we just measure
the speed with a super high tech camera
and map it out frame by frame until
we're able to write down its speed
well nothing's as easy as it seems in
the world of physics
because when filming the light through a
lens we're not seeing the light itself
but rather a reflection of it we just
circled back to square one
okay scratch that plan then how can we
prove
light is going the same speed to its
destination as its reflection
is back to point a does the one-way
speed have a defined value that's not a
constant
well this is the ultimate question among
scientists
and so far there's just no way of truly
measuring it
unlike the speed of sound which is more
conceivable the speed of light might
just be
light years ahead of us yes just more
fun light facts brought to you by the
bright side
see the tie-in okay never mind